package Log::ger::Manual::ForLog4perl;

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Log::ger for Log::Log4perl users

=pod

=head1 WHY LOG::LOG4PERL

Log4perl is a port of Log4j, a logging library for Java. It's mature (first
release is in 2002, Log4j is even older), featureful, and quite performant.
Log4perl influenced other logging libraries in Perl, at least in some aspects,
including L<Log::Any>.

You can send logs to multiple outputs, decorate (layout) the message with
various extra information, and filter by level and category. Different outputs
can be applied different filters. You can define your own logging levels.

For logging in modules, you can avoid specifying level/output and just start
logging:

 use Log::Log4perl ':easy';

 sub foo {
     DEBUG "Entering foo ...";
     ...
 }


=head1 WHY LOG::GER OVER LOG::LOG4PERL

Log::ger is significantly more lightweight (in terms of lines of code, startup
overhead, as well as null/stealth logging overhead) while still having the
abovementioned features. See L<Benchmark::Scenarios::LogGer> for more
benchmarks. This makes Log::ger more suitable when you want to add logging to
modules instead of application as Log::ger creates minimum impact to your module
users.

IMO, Log::Log4perl is not very Perlish, which is understandable since it is a
port of a Java library. With Perl you can configure and accomplish stuffs using
a more compact syntax.

Log::ger allows you to log in a custom format, e.g. using block a la
L<Log::Contextual>, log raw data structure as JSON, etc. Note: you can also
layout message as JSON in Log4perl using L<Log::Log4perl::Layout::JSON> but your
message is still a string.


=head1 MIGRATING

Some modules can ease migration. L<Log::ger::Plugin::Log4perl> provides
uppercase subroutine names: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, ERROR, WARN, FATAL like what you
get when you "use Log::Log4perl ':easy'" instead of the Log::ger default
log_trace(), log_debug(), log_info(), log_warn(), log_error(), log_fatal(). It
also provides additional log methods: log(), logdie(), logwarn(), error_warn(),
error_die(), logcarp(), logcluck(), logcroak(), logconfess().

The layout module L<Log::ger::Layout::Pattern> uses many of the same placeholder
names like C<%c> for category, C<%C> for package/class name, and so on, although
some details differ.


=head1 FAQ

=head1 I want logdie() (and logcroak(), logwarn(), ...)!

Unlike Log4perl, Log::ger (as well as L<Log::Any> and L<Log::Contextual>) by
default do not provide logger routines that log + warn|die. Either you do it
manually:

 log_fatal("Fatal!");
 die "Fatal!";

or you can use L<Log::ger::Plugin::Log4perl> that will create LOGDIE, LOGCROAK,
LOGWARN et al for you instead of the default names:

 use Log::ger::Plugin::Log4perl;
 use Log::ger;

 # instead of log_warn() now you get WARN et al
 WARN "blah ...";
 INFO "blah blah ...";

 # as well as LOGDIE, LOGCROAK, et al
 LOGDIE "Argh...";

or you can also use one or more of L<Log::ger::Plugin::WithWarn>,
L<Log::ger::Plugin::WithDie>, L<Log::ger::Plugin::WithCarp>.

C<LGP:WithWarn> will add "*_warn" variants to some of the logging routines (i.e.
those at level == 30), so you will get:

 log_warn_warn()

which will C<warn()> in addition to log.

L<LGP:WithDie> will add "*_die" variants to some of the logging routines (i.e.
those at level 0 < x <= 20), so you will get:

 log_error_die()
 log_fatal_die()

which will C<die()> in addition to log.

C<LGP:WithCarp> will add L<Carp> variants to some of the logging routines, so
you will get:

 log_warn_carp()
 log_warn_cluck()

 log_error_croak()
 log_error_confess()
 log_fatal_croak()
 log_fatal_confess()

which will call the appropriate Carp method in addition to log.

=head2 What about contextual logging?

TODO
